





                                   LBL2 ver. 1.0
                          Surveyors' Line/Curve Annotation
                        BASIS Enhanced (C) 1995 by Bill Giel


                                    Installation

       The LBL routine consists of the following files:

       LBL2.LSP       DELTA.DWG
       LBL2A.LSP      BASIS.SLB
       LBL2B.LSP      LBL2.TXT
       LBL2.DCL       LBL2.HLP
       LBL2.HDX

       Copy these files, from the directory \LBL2 on the source diskette to a
       directory on  your hard  disk. It  is a  good idea to create a special
       directory for  your custom  files, and  append this  to the  ACAD path
       environment string  in either  AUTOEXEC.BAT, or  some other batch file
       that you use to run AutoCAD.

       Once the  source and  support files  are copied over, and you've given
       AutoCAD the  information it  needs to  find them, you initiallize LBL2
       from within AutoCAD by typing

            (load "lbl2")

       at the AutoCAD command prompt.

       This will  define the  LBL command.  To access  any of  the  labelling
       functions, simply issue the command LBL at the AutoCAD command prompt.

       If you  want to  make LBL  really convenient,  you can  add the  above
       "(load..." expression  to the ACAD.LSP, which AutoCAD runs whenever it
       opens the  drawing editor. If you are not sure how to do this, ask the
       person who set up your system how to do it.

                                General Information

       LBL

       The LBL  Command provides  access to  functions that are used to label
       bearings-distances for  lines, and radius-arc lengths for curves. Each
       individual function handles a different label location option.

       Functions are  also available  to  display  the  values  for  selected
       lines/arcs without actually performing annotation.

       Executing the LBL command, by typing it at the AutoCAD command prompt,
       or by  selecting it  from a  menu, displays  a dialog box containing a
       button for each location option, for lines and curves.

       When labelling,  the crosshairs  will shift  to the  World  Coordinate
       System. Thus,  they may  appear twisted  if the current UCS is not the









       LBL2 - Documentation                                   Page 2


       "World" UCS.  However, the  location options will be correctly related
       for the current view. Upon exiting, the current UCS will be restored.

       The  program  is  compatible  with  DCA/Softdesk,  and  checks  system
       variable USERR3  for a  rotation value.  If found,  this value will be
       applied to  the "World"  orientation of  the line  to  arrive  at  the
       correct survey direction.

       Linear precision  is  controlled  by  the  system  variable  "LUPREC."
       Angular precision  is one arc second, or the value contained in system
       variable "AUPREC," whichever is greater.

       The distance  dimensioning suffix  contained in  dimensioning variable
       "DIMPOST", if any, will be appended to distance labels.

       Distances  will   be  multiplied   by  the   value  contained  in  the
       dimensioning variable "DIMLFAC."


                                 Selection Options

       Lines/Curves  can   be  selected   in  two  ways,  controlled  by  the
       'Selection' radio-buttons.

       If the  'Entities' option  is chosen, then a line or curve is labelled
       by picking  it. For  lines, the direction will be interpreted as going
       from the pickpoint to the farthest endpoint.

       If the  'Points' option  is chosen,  then lines  will be  labelled  by
       picking endpoints,  and curves  will be labelled by picking endpoints,
       and a point on the curve, between the selected endpoints.


                                    Text Option

       The "Popup  List" of  available textstyles  can be  used to change the
       current textstyle.

       The current textstyle is displayed initially as the default. To change
       to a different style, click on the arrow at the right of the list box.
       A longer  list of  available textstyles  will  appear.  Click  on  the
       desired style.  The program  will set  the current  style to  the  one
       selected.


                               Line Labelling Options

       Bearing / Distance
       This option  will cause  the bearing  to be  displayed on  top of  the
       selected line, and the distance below.

       Distance / Bearing
       This option  will cause  the distance  to be  displayed on  top of the
       selected line, and the bearing below it.









       LBL2 - Documentation                                   Page 3



       Bearing-Distance/
       This option  places both  bearing and  distance labels  on top  of the
       selected line.

       /Bearing-Distance
       This option places both bearing and distance labels below the selected
       line.

       Bearing/
       This option places the bearing, only, above the selected line.

       /Bearing
       This option places the bearing, only, below the selected line.

       Distance/
       This option places the distance, only, above the selected line.

       /Distance
       This option places the distance, only, below the selected line.

       Hang Brg/Dist
       This option  permits placing  the labels  away from the selected line.
       Prompts for  an insertion point and rotation angle for the labels will
       appear, after  the line  is selected. The labels will be placed on two
       text lines, bearing over distance.

       Hang Brg-Dist
       This option  also permits  placing the  labels away  from the selected
       line. Prompts  for an insertion point and rotation angle for the label
       will appear,  after the  line is selected. The label will be placed on
       one text line, bearing and distance.

       List Brg-Dist
       Selecting this  option lets  you display the bearing and distance of a
       selected line  in the command prompt area, without actually annotating
       the line.


                              Curve Labelling Options

       Radius ( Length
       This option  will place  the radius  label along  the outside  of  the
       selected curve, and the length label along the inside.

       Radius ) Length
       This option  will place  the radius  label along  the  inside  of  the
       selected curve, and the length along the outside.

       Radius-Length (
       This option  will locate  both radius  and  length  labels  along  the
       outside of the selected curve.

       ( Radius-Length









       LBL2 - Documentation                                   Page 4


       This option will locate both radius and length labels along the inside
       of the selected curve.

       Radius (
       This option  will place  the radius  label, only, along the outside of
       the selected curve.

       Radius )
       This option will place the radius label, only, along the inside of the
       selected curve.

       Length (
       This option  will place  the length  label, only, along the outside of
       the selected curve.

       Length )
       This option  will locate  the length  label, only, along the inside of
       the selected curve.













































       LBL2 - Documentation                                   Page 5


       Hang R/L
       This option permits placing the radius and length labels away from the
       selected curve.  Prompts for an insertion point and rotation angle for
       the labels  will appear,  after the curve is selected. The labels will
       be placed on two text lines, radius over length.

       Hang R/L/D/T
       This option  permits placing  radius, length,  delta angle and tangent
       labels away  from the  selected curve.  Prompts for an insertion point
       and rotation  angle for  the labels  will appear,  after the  curve is
       selected. The  labels will  be placed  on  four  text  lines,  radius,
       length, delta angle, and tangent length

       List R/L/D/T
       Selecting this  option lets  you display  the radius,  length,  delta,
       tangent, chord  and chord  bearing data  in the  command prompt  area,
       without actually annotating the arc.











































